README.md, before:

# Guard::Haml

Watches HAML files, compiles them to HTML on change.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/manufaktor/guard-haml.png?branch=development)](http://travis-ci.org/manufaktor/guard-haml)


## Install

As the gem name suggests this is a guard extension. Make sure you get [guard](https://github.com/guard/guard) first.

Install the gem:

    gem install guard-haml

Add it to your Gemfile if you're using bundler (you should)

    gem 'guard-haml'

Add a basic guard setup:

    guard init haml

## Options

### Configuring the output destination

If you want to change the output directory use the `output` option in your
Guardfile, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public' do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

This output is relative to the Guardfile.

### Multiple output option

This lets you compile to two (or more) html files from one haml file. This comes in handy if you want to compile to both a dev and prod build directory, for example:

    guard 'haml', { :input => 'markup', :output => ['public/dev', 'public/build'] } do
      watch(%r{^.+(\.haml)$})
    end

If you maintain your haml files in a directory that should not be part of the output path, you can set the `input` option, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src' do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

So when you edit a file `src/partials/_partial.html.haml`
it will be saved to `public/partials/_partial.html` without the `src`.

### Compile when starting guard

If you want to compile haml files on guard start you can use `run_at_start` option.

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :run_at_start => true do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

### Guard notifications

Also you can configure guard notifications (to Growl/lib-notify/Notifu) by setting `notifications` option to `true`

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :notifications => true do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

### Configuring HAML

If you want to pass options to the Haml engine, you can set the `haml_options` option, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :haml_options => { :ugly => true } do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

This will produce compressed HTML. See [Haml Reference](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.HAML_REFERENCE.html#options) for more details.

## Development

* Source is hosted on [Github: guard-haml](https://github.com/manufaktor/guard-haml)
* Report issues/questions/feature requests on the [Github Issue tracker for guard-haml](https://github.com/manufaktor/guard-haml/issues)

Pull requests are welcome. If you are adding something new that is worth documenting, please do not forget to note it in the README.

Commit message:

Documentation for extensions detection feature.

README.md, after:

# Guard::Haml

Watches HAML files, compiles them to HTML on change.

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/manufaktor/guard-haml.png?branch=development)](http://travis-ci.org/manufaktor/guard-haml)


## Install

As the gem name suggests this is a guard extension. Make sure you get [guard](https://github.com/guard/guard) first.

Install the gem:

    gem install guard-haml

Add it to your Gemfile if you're using bundler (you should)

    gem 'guard-haml'

Add a basic guard setup:

    guard init haml

## Options

### Configuring the output destination

If you want to change the output directory use the `output` option in your
Guardfile, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public' do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

This output is relative to the Guardfile.

### Multiple output option

This lets you compile to two (or more) html files from one haml file. This comes in handy if you want to compile to both a dev and prod build directory, for example:

    guard 'haml', { :input => 'markup', :output => ['public/dev', 'public/build'] } do
      watch(%r{^.+(\.haml)$})
    end

If you maintain your haml files in a directory that should not be part of the output path, you can set the `input` option, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src' do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

So when you edit a file `src/partials/_partial.html.haml`
it will be saved to `public/partials/_partial.html` without the `src`.

### File extensions

The guard extension will try to add the correct extension based off the input file name. You can provide multiple extensions to control the file name.

   "foo.haml"     -> "foo.html"
   "foo"          -> "foo.html"
   "foo.txt"      -> "foo.txt.html"
   "foo.php.haml" -> "foo.php"

You can override the default extension (`html`) using the `default_ext` option:

    guard 'haml', :default_ext => 'txt' do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

### Compile when starting guard

If you want to compile haml files on guard start you can use `run_at_start` option.

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :run_at_start => true do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

### Guard notifications

Also you can configure guard notifications (to Growl/lib-notify/Notifu) by setting `notifications` option to `true`

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :notifications => true do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

### Configuring HAML

If you want to pass options to the Haml engine, you can set the `haml_options` option, e.g.:

    guard 'haml', :output => 'public', :input => 'src', :haml_options => { :ugly => true } do
      watch %r{^src/.+(\.html\.haml)}
    end

This will produce compressed HTML. See [Haml Reference](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.HAML_REFERENCE.html#options) for more details.

## Development

* Source is hosted on [Github: guard-haml](https://github.com/manufaktor/guard-haml)
* Report issues/questions/feature requests on the [Github Issue tracker for guard-haml](https://github.com/manufaktor/guard-haml/issues)

Pull requests are welcome. If you are adding something new that is worth documenting, please do not forget to note it in the README.
